---
layout: page
title: "Matching"
category: doc
order: 4
---

### Data structure
`class DMatch`

This is the data structure that is used to store the matching features
* `vector<pair<int, int> > ind_key_` stores the index of the mathcing features
* `float dist_` stores the distance of the matching features

### Parameters
`class Match_Param`

This is the class that stores the parameters of the matchers, the first two are used by all matchers.
* `ratio` is the distance ratio of best matching features w.r.t the second-best matching features;
* `nmatches_min_` guarantees that number of returned matches is no less than the specified value;
* `ndims`, `leaf_max_size` are used by nanoflann for KD-tree construction;
* `nresults` specifies the number of returned matching features for each search.

### Matcher
`class Matcher`

This is the base class for all matching algorithms. There are three pure virtual methods that must be implemented in the sub-classes.

```cpp
virtual void init_param(Matcher_Param r_matcher_param) = 0;
```
method to initialize the parameter.

```cpp
virtual int match(const std::vector<Vecf>& desc1, const std::vector<Vecf>& desc2, std::vector<DMatch>& matches) = 0;
virtual int match(const std::vector<Vecf>& desc1, const std::vector<Vecf>& desc2, std::vector<DMatch>& matches, float (*dist_metric)(const Vecf& desc1, const Vecf& desc2)) = 0;
```
methods that are responsible for feature matching.

#### Distance metrics
`distance.h`

There are multiple distance metrics implemented, currently `l1-norm` and `l2-norm`. These distance metrices is passed to the `match` method via a function pointer. This mechanism provides greate flexibility to developers as it allows the user to implement their own distance metrics without change the code within the `match` method. The function pointer has the form of

```cpp
float (*dist_metric)(const Vecf& desc1, const Vecf& desc2);
```

#### Brute-force matcher
`class Matcher_Brute_Force`

This class implements the simple, yet inefficient brute-force feature matching algorithm.

#### Flann matcher
`class Matcher_Flann`

This class implements the bidirectional matching using nanoflann for fast nearest neighbor search.

```cpp
int match(const std::vector<Vecf>& desc1, const std::vector<Vecf>& desc2, std::vector<DMatch>& matches);
```
method that invokes the `match_bidirect` method with varying `ratio` value. The `ratio` value are automatically adjusted to return no less than `nmatches_min_` matching features.

```cpp
int match_bidirect(const std::vector<Vecf>& desc1, const std::vector<Vecf>& desc2, const kd_tree_t& kd_tree_1, const kd_tree_t& kd_tree_2, const float ratio, std::vector<DMatch>& matches);
```
method that performs bi-directional matching.